
# Abstract
The weak force in the standard model is considered to be responsible for energy shifts in energy levels and can be isolated when comparing the spectrum of left and right handed chiral molecules. Our group’s goal is to measure this shift, which has never been measured directly with spectroscopic methods.
Standard model numerical calculations predict this weak force shift, also referred to as parity violation (PV) shift to be $\Delta_{PV} = 1.8Hz$ at best, in the C-H wag vibration of CHDBrI+ <!-- Cite-->, while the vibration itself is at the (IR) frequency of $\nu_v = 33 (\sim 9 \mu m)$! This C-H wag vibrational frequency of our candidate enantiomers, as well as for other molecules we considered, is roughly $23\pm 4 \,\mathrm{cm^{-1}}$ times higher then the lowest frequency vibration, with 7 additional vibrational frequencies in between (9 altogether). This implies that the lifetime of the excited C-H wag state of any of our most promising candidate molecules will be limited by intra-molecular vibration redistribution (IVR). An estimate of the extent of this limitation was calculated numerically and it's results are described in detail in this thesis. In <!-- cite https://doi.org/10.1063/5.0163641--> you can find a brief summary of the results.
Our $\Delta_{PV}$ measurement plan, broadly speaking consists of (1) initializing our candidate molecule (CHDBrI), (2) ionizing it, (3) sympathetically cool it with an easily LASER cooled metal (Yb+ in our current attempts), (4) employ a 3 wave mixing technique to create an enantiomer-selective quantum interference, which separates enantiomers into different quantum state. <!-- Cite Itay's thesis, or our group's articles, an article about sympathetic cooling--> Sympathetically cooling a molecule is well known, already accomplished achievement, <!-- Cite a few examples -->. However, _our_ measurement plan is substantially different from the typical experimental schemes employed in other experiments in which molecules are sympathetically cooled, because the molecule initialization is not trivial. In our experiment's plan the molecule is trapped for periods $<100ms$, and hence the cooling must be as effective as possible. Not only that, our trap design is unique in the field of ion trapping and cooling, and it provides us a flexible range of secular frequencies that are not used often. A brief comparison to typical trapping experiments is laid out in the introduction. <!--hyperlink--> This non-typical setup and requirements invites a thorough simulations based research on the parameter space of the trapping & LASER cooling, which is the main topic of this thesis.
Finally, a few details of a $935\,\mathrm{nm}$ LASER diode setup are shown at the end of the thesis. This LASER is required for optical pumping 1% of the Yb+ ions that are supposed to sympathetically cool our CHDBrI+.
# Introduction
## What are Chiral Molecules?
<!-- Slightly copy from Itay Erez's thesis? Or simply cite it? -->
<!-- Explain in more detail about our candidates and from there talk about IVR -->
## Our Experimental Scheme
<!-- Explain about our the general scheme, or cite something? -->
<!-- Explain about our ion trap in details, especially details relevant to the velocity / kinetic energy resolution required and hence the maximal temperatures required.-->
<!-- Show the level diagram for Yb+ and from there justify the need for a 935nm LASER -->
<!-- Comparison to typical molecular ion trapping setups -->
## All Trapping & Cooling Parameters
The experimental scheme described above justifies optimizing the cooling process, and hence invite the main effort and research topic of this thesis - simulations of the trapping and (sympathetic) cooling our molecule. The simulations were performed by LAMMPS <!--Cite-->, which is capable of simulating numerous classical models relevant in many contexts, but in our case, I chose a simple model of charged point particles with only long-range coulomb interactions, and an electrical field resembling the field generated by our ion trap, along with a velocity dependent force imitating the LASER cooling.
Justifying the resemblance of the trapping and cooling parameters in real life to the simulation's code is detailed in the subsections below, along with the technical parameters subsection following.
### Trapping
<!--Frequencies..., pseudo, Mathieu...-->
Our ion's trap design is based upon Jila's.. 
### Cooling
Detuning and intensity were barely studied in previous research..., cooler (Yb/Ca/Be)
<!-- Mention the relation of intensity to mW/cm^2-->
<!-- Mention theory best explained at Dan Steck's stuff.-->
<!-- Explain how-->
### Technical
Cooling, stabilizing time, rf divisor 
<!-- Mention the challenge of initializing the system in a thermodynamic stable condition -->
<!-- Put all the onenote's technical challenges related content here -->
## Output Result Types
<!-- What kind of scalar results from the measurements are of interest to us? T_final, T_middle etc, mention also the cloud sizes and the relation to the experiment's measurement methods -->
<!-- Naturally, explain the behavior of the cooling regimes etc. -->
# Computational Challenges prior to Simulating
## Converting Secular Frequencies to Electric Fields
## Initial Conditions Thermodynamic Stability
# Cooling Simulations
## LASER cooling parameters
<!-- Show graph of optimal delta and intensity parameters -->
### Intensity ($\Omega/\Gamma$) & Vacuum Chamber Windows Attenuation
### Detuning ($\delta/\Gamma$)
## LASER Cooling Intrusion Angle(s) & Trap Geometry
## CHDBrI+ Concentration & Total #Ions Dependence
# Appendix: Simulation Software Manual & Technical Details
<!--stackedit_data:
eyJoaXN0b3J5IjpbMTM4NzI4OTAyMSwxMzY4MzM5ODgzLDE1OT
I4NjA1NjUsLTIwNzQzMzcyMjcsLTExOTkzNDU0ODgsMTkxMDc1
MDYyNiwtMTAxMjY5ODg5OCwtMTc4NzI3NjY5NSwtMTk0ODg0OD
k3LDEwMjEzODkxMjEsLTExNzg0OTAxOTYsLTk2NzQzNTY4MSwt
MTU5ODIyMywxMTc3NjgxNzgsLTQ0NjMxNTU2NywxMTM2ODk3OT
I3LDI0ODgzNTIyOSwtNTUwMzI1NDEzLC0xMTI2MzM5OTk0LDEw
MDU3ODY3NzhdfQ==
-->